{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red56\green101\blue115;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c27451\c47059\c52549;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 AI Training for Mandy Therapist: COWCH\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Relationships:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone Question: my relationship isn't working. We seem to be growing apart and argue frequently.\
Answer: it's normal for relationships to go through ups and downs. In fact most relationships require constant input in order to sustain themselves. Think of a relationship as a bank account. You have to put in love, attention, good communication, compromise before you can withdraw. It amazes me how many people think that they can keep taking from the relationship without thinking about what they're putting back in. Think about your relationship in terms of what you are both putting in; as in attention, kind acts of service, verbal expressions of love or admiration, mutual respect, emotional support, quality time and friendship.\
Relationships need shared commitment and shared values to ensure positive outcomes. Apart from these two requirements, healthy relationships also do better when there is physical, intellectual and emotional compatibility. When you have the above 5 pieces it is like having the keys to a car. You can start the car up but how well you drive the car then depends on how good you are at communicating, compromising and being considerate of your partner.\
Going forward in your relationship try to think of the two of you as a team. Think of \'93us\'94 rather than as being 2 separate individuals. When you use this mindset you will be more likely to behave in ways that promote healthy behaviours in your relationship.\
Often communication tends to suffer over time if you aren't regularly checking in with each other. Here are some tips to improve communication and this also improves bonding and connection:\
Goodwill tasks-each of you can write down three things that your partner could do that would make you feel really loved or valued. These three goodwill tasks need to be very specific and quite simple, examples:\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0 Watch my favourite TV programme with me on a Thursday night at 9:00 PM\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0 Cook dinner with me on a Tuesday night\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0 Text me at least once during the day so that I know you're thinking of me\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0 Buy me a chocolate once a fortnight\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The above are just general examples of goodwill tasks that you could write down. Once you have created your list swap over with your partner and then let your partner know whether you are happy to engage in those tasks. Depending on how damaged your relationship is, some tasks may not be appropriate just yet [for example physical intimacy].\
In order to improve your communication, try using assertive script. Assertive script goes like this: \'93I feel (insert emotion), when you (insert behaviour) and what I would prefer is (offer a suggestion).\
Here is an example: I feel fear when you shout at me, and I would prefer it if you would speak calmly in a low voice.\
Assertive script Is useful as a communication style be cause it expresses feelings and avoids the other person feeling attacked. If you use words such as \'93you always\'94 or \'93you never\'94, it can feel like an attack and the other person will become defensive and communication will breakdown. When you start with an \'93I\'94 statement, it takes the pressure off the other person in terms of blaming or shaming them.\
Reflective listening-this is another great communication skill. We're often so keen to get our point across that we don't truly listen to our partner. To practise reflective listening, grab an object such as a tennis ball or even a cushion and whoever is holding the object is the one who is allowed to speak. Once a person has finished speaking they can then pass the object to their partner, who before responding with their own feelings, must first feedback to their partner what they have just heard. It's a long winded way of communicating at first but it is really great practise in terms of listening and understanding where your partner is coming from. \
Another consideration is your love languages. Think about the things that your partner does that make you feel really loved and cared for. It might be that they buy you a gift or that they make your dinner, or it might just be that they spend time with you. According to Gary Chapman and his book entitled love languages he lists 5 love languages and here they are:\
Quality time; positive verbal affirmations [such as I love you, I miss you, you look fabulous today]; acts of service [such as cooking a meal, picking up dry cleaning, doing their laundry ETC]; affection and the last one is gifts. Find out what your partner's love language is and be sure to speak to them in their love language not in your love language.\
Cowch Provides relationship question is that are fun and can help you find out more about your partner. Questionnaires are a fun way to spend time together without any pressure on the two of you to be looking at the issues. Overtime when we neglect our relationships and arguing becomes more frequent, our brains tend to associate the other person with strife and difficulty and this pulls a couple apart even more. Do things that create happy memories so that your brain can make new associations between you and your partner that are happy. Research shows that doing things together that put you both out of your comfort zone can speed up bonding and connection. With that in mind you might want to try skydiving together or go to an escape room for the day. Be brave. Put positivity back into your relationship and try to remember what attracted you to your partner in the first instance. Perhaps even write a list for each other of the things that used to love about each other and give them to each other and talk about it. Open and regular communication is one of the most important parts of a relationship. When communication breaks down, assumptions take over and we start questioning our partners behaviour as well as their love for us. Instead of assuming, question your partner using assertive script and get things out in the open. I call it \'93resetting to zero\'94. When things start to irritate us overtime and we don't talk about it, we go from zero on me happy contented scale to a one or a two. Think of 10 being the most unhappy you could possibly be. When you nip that unhappiness in the bud and talk, the dial falls back down to 0. When you don't nip things in the bud, the score ratchets up towards 10. The higher you go on the unhappy scale the less communication they will be and the more assumptions you will be making. Check in regularly with yourself and with your partner as to where they are sitting on the unhappiness or discontented scale and problem solve your way back to 0.\
The final option is an hour's therapy session with Mandy. You can contact her on this e-mail address: therapy@ thoughtsonlifeandlove.com\
You can also check out her website where she writes daily on mental health problems, relationships, succeeding in your career, low self esteem, anxiety and depression amongst other issues. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://thoughtsonlifeandlove.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://thoughtsonlifeandlove.com}}\
Don't become discouraged and do your best to assume that your partner is not deliberately trying to upset you. Often what is behind arguing and miscommunication is unmet needs. When we don't feel heard or valued it can trigger all sorts of emotions. \
Another aspect to relationships that is key is your attachment style and you can find the attachment style questionnaire on Cowch to help you understand your own vulnerabilities in the relationship. There are four attachment styles and they are formed during childhood.\
Secure attachment style\
Anxious attachment style\
Avoidant attachment style\
Disorganised attachment style\
Take the questionnaire to figure out your attachment style and this will help you prevent some of the behaviours that might be interfering in your relationship.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 NEED TO ADD:\
Relationship questionnaire\
Mandy\'92s copyrighted compatibility questionnaire\
Attachment style questionnaire\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl278\slmult1\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \
}